## Walks are nice

I had a nice walk this morning, it's a great way to come up with ideas for rambles. *If I had to guess, 90% of the rambles will be walk ideas once this is all said and done*

So, to go along with the theme, I remembered I made [this track](#give_goin_for_a_walk) a while ago

<script type="module">
    import { inventory } from "/scripts/widgets/inventory.js"
    const goin_for_a_walk = "Goin For A Walk";

    window.addEventListener("give_goin_for_a_walk", (e)=>{
        inventory.addItem(goin_for_a_walk, "items/goin_for_a_walk.md");
    }, false);
</script>

<div data-subtle-music-player="Goin For A Walk">
<iframe width="100%" height="300" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" allow="autoplay" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/953029411&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=true&show_comments=false&show_user=false&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=false&visual=true"></iframe>
</div>

---

So I think I've finally figured out the purpose of this place... **projectsite**... it's right there in the title

My brain needs to focus on one thing at a time, but I'm also interested in a variety of things. I end up jumping around from hobby to hobby and only making something of value occasionally, when my willpower is at its peak

Now, *value* is a fairly slippery topic. In this case that means *existing in other people's worlds*. IE posting, sharing, putting it out there. Take your pick (this outlook is inspired by the [cult of done](https://medium.com/@bre/the-cult-of-done-manifesto-724ca1c2ff13)

Obviously one solution to this would be to make public my many half-finished projects and prototypes. I'm taking a slightly different path. It's all going here, shit posts, prototypes, experiments, full-ass-games, music, blogs about my non-digital hobbies (those exist **0.0**). This way, I can be as chaotic with my interests as I like and still *exist*. Hell, I'll even post some thoughts on video games from time to time

Anywho, think of that as a mission statement of sorts. I think it's coherent enough, maybe tomorrow I'll add hidden links, or lock-and-key mechanisms with the items you can pick up. Maybe I'll slack off instead. Or maybe I'll actually do some damn work on [Goblin Camp](goblin_camp.md) instead of working directly on this rats nest

[Previous ramble](rambles/01_04_2024.md)