## On Ideas, Success, Failure, Profitability, The Grind, Joy

It's hard for me to figure out where to start connecting these topics, but I did a lot of philosophising on my last walk, so I'll get there eventually.

Let's start with some term definitions and try to pull some connections out later.

### The Grind

Is just [Type 2 Work](types_of_work.md)... work done for it's extrinsic value.

### Idea (in the context of this blog)

When I say **Idea** on this page, I guess I mean 'An Idea for a project, or part of a project' or minimally 'An Idea for *something* to do/make'. For me, this will likely refer to a game idea, a musical/song/album idea, a youtube/video content idea, etc.

Sharing your ideas is crutial-and when I say sharing here, I don't mean making a presentation, or *simply telling someone*. People are desensitized to 'ideas', they're dreadfuly common.

No, I mean **Creating** an idea. Making it real, even if just in draft state. It is *impossible* to tell if an idea is a **Success** if you don't share it. It can be very difficult to tell if an idea is a **Failure** if you don't share it. Luckily a truely terrible idea is pretty obvious to spot, unfortunately our own ego (or lack thereof) can make a possibly **Successful** idea seem like a **Failure**.

### Successful Idea / Failed Idea

This is going to get untechnical real fast... A **Successful Idea** is something that *resonates*. Something that vibes with a person on a deeper level. If it's a game, then a mechanic that *is fun* (even if it's just to you) is a **Successful Idea**. If it's a dancy track, then it's a section that makes you bob your head.

A **Failed Idea** is simply something that doesn't resonate with anyone, even yourself.

With enough resources (some mixture of time, effort, tools (both psychological and literal), money, social capital, etc) a **Successful Idea** CAN BE FABRICATED.

Often, the only resources available to us are time, and the psychological tools to use our time on [Type 2 Work](types_of_work.md) (See **On Using The Grind to create Success** below). Not everyone has either of these, but you minimally need *both* OR enough other resources to make up for your lack of one or the other or both (this is how billionaires can be **Successful** with seeming ease).

### Joyful Idea

You can see this as a partial **Success**, but I choose to see it as a separate criteria. If you enjoy *working on* an idea (more specifically, if the work put into an idea classifies as [Type **1** Work](types_of_work.md)), then it is a **Joyful Idea**. The idea itself can turn out to be a **Failure** in terms of resonating on any level with anyone and still be **Joyful**.

There can be parts of a project (put another way, **Ideas** that exist within a project, but do not encompass the project itself) that you find enjoyable, and others that you find dreadfully boring.

This site is filled primarily with **Joyful** ideas... and a good deal of sharing ideas without really **Creating** them, which violates what I've said above...

A **Joyful Idea** cannot be fabricated, it must be experienced.

My soul says I can usually tell the difference between a **Joyful Idea** an unjoyful one when I run into them in the wild. I can't say I belive myself here, but it's a nice lie if nothing else. Really, it doesn't matter if I can, because it's a concept that is important more for the creator than the consumer.

### Profitable Idea

A **Successful Idea** that has had enough [Type 2 Work](types_of_work.md) put into it to make it worth exchanging money for. If you've ever heard of **The Grind**, this is where it primarily comes into play (see below).

It's quite possible that you will put enough Type 2 work into making a nominally **Successful** Idea **Profitable** that it doesn't actually turn a profit at the end of the day. This is usually a business concern rather than a creative one so I'll be treating any Idea that *makes any money* as **Profitable**.


## On using The Grind to create Success (BONUS: There's another way!)

Fabricating a **Successful Idea** usually (or, I would argue, always) procludes that same idea being **Joyful**. When you fabricate success, you're using entirely Type 2 work to create the end product (the intention behind the project is to appeal to, or succeed in some external way). See [Types of Work](types_of_work.md) for more musings on the connections here.

### If that's so, where do Joyful & Successful Ideas come from?

Well, if you read all of the above you'll recall when I wrote *"People are desensitized to 'ideas', they're dreadfuly common"*. We have ideas all the time, some of these must be joyful.

Do you often find yourself airing your ideas to your friends? Things that you don't intend on ever doing, but "would be cool"? Theres some joy in that, however, it may not be enough to drive you to complete the project.

For me this blog post is a **Joyful Idea**, I'm enjoying writing it enough that I'm willing to also do Type 2 work to see it through.

Let's systemitize a path to the ideal **Joyful & Successful Idea**!

### The afore-mentioned other way

We'll start by accepting a few things:
(a) The path to a **Joyful & Successful Idea** is going to paved with many **Joyful Failures**.
(b) We're not here to grind, but instead letting the joy guide us to ideas to try.
(c) There is no guerentee we'll actually reach a **Joyful & Successful Idea**.
(d) Let yourself enjoy your **Joyful Failures**. Let yourself give up on them (WITH NO SHAME!) when the joy is gone.

OK, here are the steps:

1) Adjust the idea generator within you: Ignore ideas that are impossible for you to actually finish with your current resources, unless you're willing to accept from the jump that they WILL BE **Joyful Failures** (Let's make an MMO!). NOTE: You may need to accept these as failures from the start as you build the skills, network, etc to actually finish more of your ideas.
2) Focus on parts of ideas that are **Joyful** to you, start there (it could be you just really wanted to make some 8-bit sprites for a robot game you never intend to make).
3) Learn for yourself how much Type 2 Work you are willing to do to get to the Joy. This amount is qualitative, and changes over time, both intentionally and unintentionally.
4) Whenever you can, share your **Ideas** with friends, family, the internet, anyone who will listen.
5) Repeat until you have a **Successful Idea**. If you care to: use some Type 2 Work to turn that **Successful Idea** into a **Profitable Idea**. By the end of this process it may turn out the Idea just isn't Joyful enough to carry you there. Up to you when to stop.
6) If you never have a **Successful Idea** you'll at least have had plenty of Joy. I'll be honest, I think that's more important.

## OK, so what's the takeaway?

Success and Joy are both good motivating factors. The mentality of the Grind, Success, Profit progression is flawed when our limitations are taken into account. A much better mentality is to let Success drive effort, and let Joy drive creativity.

[Previous ramble](rambles/02_05_2024.md)